---

Analyzing the sensational rise of BTS
I think the whole thing, boy band, it's a little bit of a dirty word. They say it's not a good thing to be in a boy band.~ Liam Payne(One Direction)
From the Beatlemania to the Backstreet Boys and One Direction, boy bands over the decades have made a significant impact on the music industry. With the internet revolutionizing music over the last decade, the rise of recent musicians have been significantly different from earlier bands. While the term was coined in the late 1980s¹, it can be fairly accurately stated that boy bands have existed for far longer. They are also often targeted at young specifically teenage female audiences. The term also often specifically implies "young handsome men in their 20s who specifically target pre-teens through their aggressive marketing prioritizing looks over actual music.¹"
BTS tickets are in huge demand year-round but what went into the rise of the first non-western mainstream boy band?While the term "boy band" has several connotations attached to it, for the purposes of this essay, it can be simply defined as a "vocal group of male musicians". While almost all mainstream boy bands until now have sung primarily in English, BTS is a notable exception. Their phenomenal rise can perhaps be better understood by a few quantifiable examples.
Their recent single, Dynamite garnered 101.1 million views on YouTube in a mere 24 hours breaking the record for most views in 24 hours by a music video² and also debuted on top on billboard's hot 100
BTS' Love Yourself tour in 2018 had the most expensive tickets for 2018 with tickets going up to 3800$³.
BTS' label Bighit Entertainment raked in 508 million $ in profits in 2019, a YoY increase of 95%⁴.
BTS' tickets had twice the site traffic on VividSeats compared to Jeniffer Lopez on the morning of their tour announcement in 2019⁵.

Search interest over time for BTS. (Source: Google Trends)Demographics of BTS fans.
As with any good boy band, marketing to core audiences effectively plays a huge role in the success of BTS. Following graphs may help to quantify the demographics of their fans.


The first graph show an overwhelming majority of BTS' fans are female. The second further demonstrates that more than 60% of their fans lie within a narrow range of 25–29 years of age. Fans under 20 make up more than 27% of their audience while fans above 30 make up a mere 6.9% of BTS' fans.
Keys to success
Origin of the members: Like most other Korean Pop groups, the initial BTS members were scouted by an agency and went through rigorous grooming and training at an agency. This is in large part due to South Korean society's "extremely status- and education-oriented system and beauty obsession"(Boman 12). There is a clear focus in the South Korean music industry on the performer rather than the actual music⁷.
Fandom: K-pop and BTS in particular have gained a rapid fan following in western countries and Asia alike⁸. This fandom(who call themselves Adorable Representative MC for Youth or ARMY for short) is fiercely loyal and extremely vocal on Social media platforms. According to Brandwatch, the group and related terms were mentioned an average of 1,004,197 daily on social media platforms. Boy band fandoms have typically always been seen as being more obsessed with the artists compared to other types of fandoms but the internet has given the fans a huge platform to voice their opinion and echo off one another. This has played a huge rule in the increasing relevance of BTS and K-pop as a whole.
Reasons for the development of a huge BTS fandom:
Looks and choreography: It is no secret that boy bands have always been looks-oriented. BTS are no exception. In the fiercely competitive South Korean music industry, looks along with talent play a big role in success stories of bands⁷. Along with looks, due to the South Korean music industry being performer oriented (one of the few notable differences between Western and Asian music), choreography in flashy music videos coupled with extravagant concerts and live performances also played a substantial role in BTS' rise.
Emotional resonance: BTS' primarily young and female audiences connect well with their message of body positivity and self love. Most of their songs unlike conventional boy bands are based on self care and postivity. For instance their recent success, Dynamite has been explained by one of the band members as being "It's about all the little things that make like truly valuable and special(sic)". He further explains that the single aims to serve as a message of hope for ARMY all over the world⁹. One BTS fan interviewed even went as far as to describing the band as "perfection" for they taught her self-love and confidence(paraphrased)^A.
The Social aspect: In conversation with several BTS fans, I discovered that most discovered them and their music through friends and family. This huge community helping spread awareness of the K-Pop industry on social media and real life alike leads to a positive feedback loop and helps provide a sense of identity and belonging for young people^A.


---

Author's notes
The south Korean music industry has very recently been considered mainstream in western countries and therefore there is a lack of research on the topic.
[A]The later points mentioned discussing the reasons behind BTS' wild rise and the subsequent development of a huge fandom is to a large extent based on anecdotal evidence by interviewing fans in detail with n=5 due to the fact that it would be nearly-impossible for a single entity to parse through a large data-set due to the extreme subjectivity and vast range of reasons for liking a band.
For any corrections, please contact the author.
Raw text and citations