---

What makes things funny?
Analyzing humor is like dissecting a frog. Few people are interested and the frog dies of it. ~ E. B. White
Humor certainly is one of mankind's greatest social constructs but the abstractness of the emotion begs the question "What makes things funny?" Great minds over the centuries have theorized on the origin of humor. Mark Twain, Descartes, Aristotle and Sigmund Freud all had distinct theories on the origin of humor.
Humor is a subjective and abstract emotion and thus to establish a concrete definition that is acceptable to the majority of people is extremely important. For the purposes of this essay, humor can be defined as any thought which possesses the tendency to evoke a sense of amusement in the receiver. Laughter can be defined as the vocal expression that often follows the emotion of humor.
From a biological perspective, humor perception originates in the frontal lobes of the brain. Relief Theory also states that laughter or humor is a biological mechanism by which psychological tensions are relieved. Austrian neurologist Sigmund Freud who brought Relief Theory into prominence, expressed his view that jokes were formulated when the conscious allowed the expression of thoughts that society usually forbade in his book Jokes and Their Relation. According to Relief Theory, humor has the main social function of serving as a way of the conscious to indulge in thoughts usually forbidden by societal norms.
Aristotle was a proponent of superiority theory of humor and carried a negative outlook towards humor.Another well established theory is Superiority Theory. Superiority Theory dictates that humor is amusement at the misery of others. The proponents of superiority theory include Greek philosophers Plato and Aristotle. For Aristotle, humor was characterized by laughing at ugly and inferior people to feel superiority over them. This theory is also sound from an evolutionary perspective as learning from the mistakes of others by laughing at them would provide a species an evolutionary advantage. This theory is not without it's shortcomings however. The theory fails to explains other forms of humor like phonological jokes(puns) or other modern forms of humor. Supporters of Superiority Theory also generally carry a negative outlook towards humor.
Another well established theory of humor is the Incongruity Theory. The Incongruity Theory states that it is neither relief nor superiority that makes something humorous. Rather, it is the contrast between two ideas. The realization that that answer is unconventional makes people laugh. The amusement is derived from the confusion created. A traditional joke with a buildup of expectation and the subsequent punchline adheres to this theory. German philosopher Immanuel Kant defined humor as the "sudden transformation of a strained expectation into nothing". Most verbal comedy follows this theory.
The theories discussed above are the main theories of humor but there are several other contemporary theories that explain what humor is and what social function it serves. Although the above mentioned theories do not explain all humor, they serve as good explanations for most forms of conventional humor. A unified theory of humor may also build upon these fundamental theories (if such a theory could truly exist).


---

Authors notes
The author leans towards The Incongruity Theory. This essay aims to serve as an introduction into the philosophy of humor and why some things make us laugh. For a followup about a biological/evolutionary view point of humor click here.
The author uses the following words interchangeably for the purposes of this essay: Joke(s), Humor
For any corrections, please contact the author.
Raw text and citations